boy it feels like it's hard to keep up
with technology hey you want to buy my
eight-track player smartphones are
getting more expensive and their cameras
are multiply but there's a reason for
that let's dive into the world of tech
and discover the most unusual things
starting with those notches why do most
smartphones have them I'm talking about
those displays with irregular shapes
versus just having a black band all the
way across the top there's a notch cut
out of the screen that makes a little
room for the front camera and sometimes
the speaker well
manufacturers wanted to give extra space
for the screen the benefits of the
notches aren't many though marketers
believe it's easier to sell a phone with
more screen space than one with a
smaller display manufacturers also keep
adding more cameras to phones to
increase the quality of the pictures
taken DSLR cameras have huge lenses and
robust bodies but phones can't snap
excellent photos with only one lens the
dual Plus cameras try to make the photos
look more professional sometimes to do
that the cameras work separately the
first photo posted on the Internet came
from CERN it was the horrible CERN girls
a comedy band consisting of employees
and partners of scientists at the
institution electronic mail is older
than the worldwide web it was invented
in the 1960s but back then users could
only send letters to other users who had
the same computer in some cases both
users had to be online to receive the
mail it wasn't until 1971 when people
could send mail between hosts across the
ARPANET the first wide-area packet
switching Network the Queen of England
sent her first email in 1976
[Music]
around 40% of Internet traffic is
non-human it's usually robots trying to
take data in fact there's a whole online
forum run entirely by bots they use a
model to create posts that mimic other
posts by real users the users commenting
and interacting with the posts are also
robots that just boots the heck out of
me China has the highest number of
Internet users 748 million followed by
India 455 million together the to have
more Internet users than the entire
populations of Europe and South America
combined Nintendo was originally a
playing card company in 1889 around the
1960s the company began making toys and
almost a decade later video games
smartphones have gotten so expensive in
recent years that fewer than 10% of
people pay one thousand dollars for one
the hefty price tag has to do with
advanced features such as facial
recognition multiple cameras and better
processors the difference between
notebooks and laptops is that notebooks
are lighter smaller and have less
processing power when digital
calculators first came out people were
very skeptical of their accuracy and one
brand attached an abacus so the users
could double check their math
smartphones have more processing power
than the computers used to send the
Apollo astronauts to the moon the
computers had just 2048 words of memory
and could only store data temporarily an
average smartphone has 7 million times
the memory the guidance computer had
until 1983 consumers used to rent phones
for a dollar fifty to five dollars every
month then they became available for the
general public to purchase for 20 bucks
that would be 50 dollars today
a study found that 58 percent of men and
47 percent of women suffer from
nomophobia as the fear of being without
your fall the word is an abbreviation of
no mobile phone phobia individuals are
so used to taking their little gadgets
to the bathroom that 1 in 5 people drop
their smartphone in the toilet
you'll mention here of how many retrieve
their gadgets but you can imagine
throwing your mobile phone is an actual
sport in Finland since 2000 people have
been participating in the mobile
throwing championships they're judged on
distance or technique the thrown phones
have been donated the name Google was
actually a spelling mistake the original
founders were going to name it Google
which is the number one followed by 100
zeros they picked the name to show the
search engine provided tons of info
Netflix has been around long before
Google it was founded in 1997 and they
used to physically ship DVDs to people's
homes
remember the red mailer in 1996
Bluetooth was named after King Harald
Bluetooth he was a king of denmark in
norway more than a thousand years ago
despite popular belief the word emoji
has nothing to do with emotions it comes
from Japan e translates to picture and
mo G means character the first web cam
was created at Cambridge University in
1991 by computer scientists why because
they wanted to keep an eye on the
coffeepot levels from their desk
lol used to mean something completely
different before the Internet the
earliest recorded use of lol was short
for little old lady search engines can
only access a small part of the Internet
the rest is in the Deep Web and nobody
wants to dig that deep
it's mandatory in the UK to pay for a TV
license it costs almost two hundred
dollars a year to support the British
Broadcasting Corporation because it has
no advertisements the word camera comes
from camera obscura which translates to
dark chamber it came from the way the
original device was made there are 12
cameras sitting on the surface of the
Moon astronauts left them there to bring
back lunar rock samples when they
couldn't carry more weight they only
brought back the films used to develop
the photos they snapped one pixel on
your electronic devices consists of
three or four colors those can be red
green and blue or cyan magenta yellow
and black each pixel is a sample of the
original image the term IP has two
definitions it means both Internet
Protocol and intellectual property Wi-Fi
was a byproduct of a failed research
experiment when an Australian radio
astronomer was trying to detect many
black holes well cool if you point your
car keys at your head the remotes signal
range will increase as because the
signal uses your body as a radio
transmitter instead of using mowers that
run on gasoline to mow their lawn Google
rents goats to do the job the goat
herder brings 200 goats and they spend
the rest of the week with a company or
until they're done eating the first
computer mouse was created in 1964 it
had a bulky rectangular shape and it was
made out of wood the first alarm clock
was invented in 1787 and it could only
ring one time it went off at 4:00 a.m.
it was programmed like that on purpose
to wake its inventor up for work high
tech for the time
Android means a human with a male robot
appearance the female equivalent is
gynoid and if you didn't like either of
these you might be annoyed if you feel
your phone in your pocket vibrating but
nobody's calling you you might be
experiencing phantom vibration syndrome
some of the most common passwords used
today are QWERTY password and six
consecutive ones one of the founders of
Twitter suggested that the social media
site could be named friend stalker but
they decide to settle for something less
you know weird the other co-founder went
through the dictionary and tried to find
something similar to twitch and that's
when Twitter appeared typewriter is one
of the longest words you can write on
your keyboard using only one row of keys
check it out there are more keyboard
layouts than just the QWERTY keyboard
one of them is the Dvorak layout it was
patented in 1936 with all the vowels in
the middle row his creator said it
improved typing speed and efficiency but
the layout never got is famous other
layouts include the beautiful Purdy
QWERTY the filthy dirty QWERTY and the
brainy nerdy QWERTY bye for now